

              
  
      
              
        
          
    
        
                            my account
                logout
                        
                
                
            

        

    

    
    
    	
            
                
                                          
                                    

                
                    
                        
                        
                        
                    
                

            

            
                	
                                about us 
                                	about us
	what we do
	locations
	our team


                            
	products
	
                                services 
                                	investment banking
	private banking
	market research
	wealth management


                            
	
                                resources 
                                	documents
	videos
	photos
	blog
	intranet


                            
	
                                news & events 
                                	news
	events


                            


            
        

    


      
      
  
      
    
        
        
        
                                
                                            
                                                                        
                        
                    
                                                            
                    
                                                   		      	
		   
			         				         		
   		       
	    
              
      
  
              	    	    		  		  	  	  		  		  		  	      
              
        
          
  		  
    the gas price rollercoaster  

  
    
                
      
  
              	    	    		  		  	  	  		  		  		  	      
              
        
          












      
      
    
      

    jun 29 2011 at 09:00 edt
      
        
                      3 comments
                  
      
  


      
      
          

  
  dynamic factors affect crude prices
crude oil and, by default, gasoline prices, are driven by a complex assortment of factors that affect supply and demand, including geopolitical risks, weather, inventories, global economic growth, exchange rates, speculation, hedging and investment activity. from the risk of piracy in the straits of malacca and hormuz, to transit vulnerability in the caspian and extreme weather in the united states, crude is constantly susceptible to a variety of price-driving forces.


the worldwide demand for crude oil, gasoline and petroleum products that are made from crude is expected to increase as the u.s. and global economies strive to recover. this growing demand, coupled with political instability in the middle east and north africa (mena) region and the decline in the u.s. dollar's value, are what pushed gasoline prices to $4 per gallon earlier this year. while gas prices climbed, the average cost for crude oil rose from about $90 per barrel in mid-february, 2011, to about $127 per barrel two months later.




figure 1 shows average regular gasoline prices in the u.s. over the past three years. crude oil and gasoline reached record highs during 2008, following surges in worldwide demand due in part to increased demand from emerging markets like china and india. during the second half of 2008, demand and prices both tumbled in response to deteriorating economic conditions. from june to december of 2008, gasoline prices fell from just over $4 per gallon to $1.59. prices rose steadily through the middle of 2009, bounced up and down for the next year, and then by september 2010, gas prices took off with unrelenting daily price increases. fears of $6 gas, a slowing economy and decreased demand put the brakes on the uptrend, and price increases finally slowed by mid-may, 2011.


where do our dollars go at the pump?
according to the eia data from 2010, 68% of every dollar at the gas pump goes to crude oil - the raw material used to produce gasoline. refining the crude oil into gasoline and retailing, which includes distribution and marketing, adds 18% to the price that consumers pay for gasoline. the remaining 14% of every dollar goes towards excise taxes.

in the united states, the federal government excise tax is currently 18.4 cents per gallon. the average fuel tax paid by consumers, however, is 49.5 cents per gallon. the difference comes from state and local government taxes, which vary widely across the u.s. the tax in alaska, for example, is about 26 cents per gallon; in connecticut, the rate is more than 70 cents per gallon.

perhaps surprisingly, the united states produces 51% of the oil and petroleum products that it consumes. the rest is imported from other countries, including canada at the top of the list (25%); saudi arabia (12%); venezuela (10%) and mexico (9%).

what's ahead?
the energy information administration (eia) expects that the annual price of wti (west texas intermediate) crude will average $103 per barrel in 2011 and $107 per barrel in 2012; the 2010 average was $79. the eia projects rising crude costs will add an average of 85 cents more per gallon of gasoline during 2011, with an additional three cents per gallon during 2012. the 2010 average regular pump price was $2.78 per gallon; eia's forecast for 2011 and 2012 is $3.63 and $3.66, respectively.

despite these carefully crafted forecasts, any one of a vast number of factors could trigger strong changes in crude and gasoline prices - both to the upside and downside.

up and down (and up and down)
the weak u.s. dollar only exaggerates rising global oil prices for american consumers. countries with strong currencies, including those using the euro and the yen, are generally exposed to smaller price increases. though high gas prices are never welcome, they have come at a particularly tricky time as unemployment and foreclosure rates remain high and food prices soar. while gas prices in the u.s. are still a dollar higher than this time last year, they continue to drop from the early may highs.

  
    
                
      
  
              	    	    		  		  	  	  		  		  		  	      
              
        
          












      
      
    
      

  


  
    
                    
		  		  		
		

				          
      
  
              	    	    		  		  	  	  		  		  		  	      
              
        
          





    
    





      post a comment
  

  4
      comments
  



  	
        
          
            
            chris johnson
            more than a year ago.
          

          
            
              
                despite these carefully crafted forecasts, any one of a vast number of factors could trigger strong changes in crude and gasoline prices - both to the upside and downside.
              


                              reply
                

                          

            	
      
        
          
          jason smith
          more than a year ago.
        

        
          
            yes... but while gas prices in the u.s. are still a dollar higher than this time last year, they continue to drop from the early may highs.

                      

        

      
    






        
      
          	
        
          
            
            mark green
            more than a year ago.
          

          
            
              
                the weak u.s. dollar only exaggerates rising global oil prices for american consumers. countries with strong currencies, including those using the euro and the yen, are generally exposed to smaller price increases. 
              


                              reply
                

                          

            





        
      
          	
        
          
            
            kasey hamlin
            more than a year ago.
          

          
            
              
                interesting note: the united states produces 51% of the oil and petroleum products that it consumes.
              


                              reply
                

                          

            





        
      
          	
        
          
            
            jason
            more than a year ago.
          

          
            
              
                3.43 per gallon, 28.3 cents more then last year.
              


                              reply
                

                          

            





        
      
      

  
    




  

  






      
      
    
  	  




      
      
    
           
   
                    


                                                        
                                                            
                    
                                                   		      	
		   
			         				         		
   		       
	              
      
  
      
              
        
          








          related news

    	
      
        		                
                      the gas price rollercoaster

                                
                              june 29, 2011
                                                                            3 comments
                          

                                historically, the price of gasoline has been tied to changes in the cost of crude oil; as crude prices rise, consumers can expect to pay more at the pump, and the reverse is also true.

                  

      
    
	
      
        		                
                      rethinking the budget: 6 counterintuitive tips

                                
                              february 7, 2013
                                                                            2 comments
                          

                            

      
    
	
      
        		                
                      how can mlps pay out higher dividends than their earnings?

                                
                              february 7, 2013
                                                            0 comment
                          

                                a common question we get about master limited partnerships (mlps) is how can they pay out higher dividends than their earnings?

                  

      
    


  
      
      
    
           
   
                    


                                            
                    
                                                        
                                
        

    

                      
      
  
      
              
        
          
    
        
            
                our company

                	about us
	our team
	locations
	contact us


            

            
                news & events

                	recent news
	upcoming events
	insight blog


            


            
                for clients

                	intranet
	resources
	videos
	mobile site


            

            
                newsletter sign up

                
                    
                    
                    subscribe
                    unsubscribe

                

            

        

        
            
                powered by: dotcms — © 2014  all rights reserved.
            

            
                rss feed
                follow us on twitter
                follow us on facebook
                send to a friend
                add this
            

        

    






  
  



































      
      
    
      
	powered by dotcms - the leading open source java content management syst