

              
  
      
              
        
          
    
        
                            my account
                logout
                        
                
                
            

        

    

    
    
    	
            
                
                                          
                                    

                
                    
                        
                        
                        
                    
                

            

            
                	
                                about us 
                                	about us
	what we do
	locations
	our team


                            
	products
	
                                services 
                                	investment banking
	private banking
	market research
	wealth management


                            
	
                                resources 
                                	documents
	videos
	photos
	blog
	intranet


                            
	
                                news & events 
                                	news
	events


                            


            
        

    


      
      
  
      
    
        
        
        
                                
                                            
                                                                        
                        
                    
                                                            
                    
                                                   		      	
		   
			         				         		
   		       
	    
              
      
  
              	    	    		  		  	  	  		  		  		  	      
              
        
          
  
    
      bullish on america? get on board with southwest air      		    

    
      
                  
      
  
              	    	    		  		  	  	  		  		  		  	      
              
        
          












      
      
    
        

      aug 24 2011 at 11:00 edt
      dana blankenhorn
      
        
                      2 comments
                  
      
    

    during the 1980s and 1990s southwest air (luv) was a great investment story. since then the company's performance has stalled, and it now performs like any other airline stock -- which is to say, poorly.

i knew southwest's story from my college days in texas. i know why its symbol is luv – its original hub was dallas' love field. i knew that for years it avoided regulation by flying only within texas, mostly in a triangle of dallas, houston and san antonio. and i knew vaguely of what it had done since.

but living in atlanta, i lost track of southwest until my daughter went to college in texas, and i found the only way to come back from driving her stuff there was to fly in through birmingham and then have someone drive me home.

the carrier's fares were half those of all competitors flying into atlanta, there were no bag fees, and my own experience with it was positive. they're frank about being aus line. no romance of the air. let's get along and we'll all get through this. nice.

once southwest announced the acquisition of airtran, i noticed immediately that delta (dal) matched its birmingham prices, at least to texas. that's one reason why its stock no longer performs like a tech stock. the hub-and-spoke guys find a way to match fares, then add up-charges (like the bag fees and change fees) once they get you in. i'd rather fly southwest.

this was the first quarter where airtran's results are plugged into southwest's numbers. (read a transcript of the earnings call here.) southwest is complaining about fuel costs, like everyone else, so if the end of the libyan civil war does indeed mean lower fuel prices, they will benefit on the bottom line.

the big news is that airtran is being integrated into the larger whole. despite its union contracts, despite its slightly different way of routing planes, despite its different fleet mix, the two are becoming one, and that process should be complete within a year.

southwest also announced its first direct service through atlanta, and once all airtran flights are southwest flights, i know things will change at atlanta's hartsfield-jackson airport. delta will no longer be the sole owner of this market.

question is, how much will they change, and will that change be enough to get southwest's performance ahead of the airline pack again?

despite its stock performance, southwest retains many advantages over airlines like delta. it has a better balance sheet. it's growing, not shrinking. it has no huge international exposure. it retains its generally good reputation for customer service, unlike discount rival jetblue.

right now southwest stock is selling at a p/e of just 12, which is in line with the market as a whole. with the airtran acquisition complete and the company starting to ramp up operations in the east and south, that should have a positive impact on earnings in 2012 and beyond. if you believe the u.s. economy is going to grow next year (and not everyone does) then i think southwest will get more than its share of that growth.

if you are a bull on america, in other words, you should be a bull on southwest air too.

disclosure: i have no positions in any stocks mentioned, and no plans to initiate any positions within the next 72 hours.
    
      
                  
      
  
              	    	    		  		  	  	  		  		  		  	      
              
        
          












      
      
    
        

              
          
                      long ideas
                      services
                      airlines
                  

          


    
            
		  		  		
		

				          
      
  
      
              
        
          





    
    




      post a comment
  

  1
      comments
  



  	
        
          
            
            jason
            more than a year ago.
          

          
            
              
                this is a great blog.
              


                              reply
                

                          

            





        
      
      

  
    




  

  






      
      
    
  	    

  



      
      
    
           
   
                    


                                                        
                                                            
                    
                                                   		      	
		   
			         				         		
   		       
	    
          
      
  
              	    	    		  		  	  	  		  		  		  	      
              
        
          
  
    
      
      
        
      
    

    
  


  
    
    topics


    
      most recent
              investment banking
              private banking
              research
              wealth management
          

  


  
    
    tags


    
      
                	
		
										
			
			
					
									
				
			
																																																																																																																																																																												
			
						
			
						
			
			
			
												
				airlines
			
								
				consumer goods
			
								
				customer service
			
								
				earnings
			
								
				fund holdings
			
								
				jewelry stores
			
												
				long & short ideas
			
												
				long ideas
			
								
				quick picks & lists
			
												
				services
			
			
		 	
	
      
    

  




      
      
    
           
   
                    


                                            

                    

                                                        
                                
        


    

                      
      
  
      
              
        
          
    
        
            
                our company

                	about us
	our team
	locations
	contact us


            

            
                news & events

                	recent news
	upcoming events
	insight blog


            


            
                for clients

                	intranet
	resources
	videos
	mobile site


            

            
                newsletter sign up

                
                    
                    
                    subscribe
                    unsubscribe

                

            

        

        
            
                powered by: dotcms — © 2014  all rights reserved.
            

            
                rss feed
                follow us on twitter
                follow us on facebook
                send to a friend
                add this
            

        

    






  
  



































      
      
    
      
	powered by dotcms - the leading open source java content management syst