

              
  
      
              
        
          
    
        
                            my account
                logout
                        
                
                
            

        

    

    
    
    	
            
                
                                          
                                    

                
                    
                        
                        
                        
                    
                

            

            
                	
                                about us 
                                	about us
	what we do
	locations
	our team


                            
	products
	
                                services 
                                	investment banking
	private banking
	market research
	wealth management


                            
	
                                resources 
                                	documents
	videos
	photos
	blog
	intranet


                            
	
                                news & events 
                                	news
	events


                            


            
        

    


      
      
  
      
    
        
        
        
                                
                                            
                                                                        
                        
                    
                                                            
                    
                                                   		      	
		   
			         				         		
   		       
	    
              
      
  
              	    	    		  		  	  	  		  		  		  	      
              
        
          
  		  
    how can mlps pay out higher dividends than their earnings?  

  
    
                
      
  
              	    	    		  		  	  	  		  		  		  	      
              
        
          












      
      
    
      

    feb 07 2013 at 16:09 est
      
        
                      no comments
                  
      
  


  
  a common question we get about master limited partnerships (mlps) is how can they pay out higher dividends than their earnings?

the answer to this question has to do with the way that depreciation and, in the case of natural resource producers, depletion expenses are treated. depreciation and depletion expenses are a means of assigning the cost of a long-term asset, such as a pipeline or natural resource, over its useful life. these items are called "non-cash" expenses because cash is not actually being paid out for the depreciation or depletion of the long-term asset.

a corporation typically reinvests much of its cash flow to upgrade its equipment, keep pace with technological advancements, and/or expand its business. after these payments are made, the remaining cash flow can then be paid out as dividends. mlp assets, such as pipelines, however, are generally long-lived; require very little maintenance; and are not subject to major technological changes.

it is for these reasons that an mlp can pay out a very high level of its cash flow to unitholders without hurting the long-term basic earnings power of the business. this is also why investors should value mlps based off metrics related to distributable cash flow (dcf) and not earnings.

dcf is the cash flow available to the partnership to pay distributions to lp unitholders and the gp. since dcf strips out all non-cash items, it is a truer measure of how much cash an mlp is generating and whether it can continue to pay out or increase its dividend.

  
    
                
      
  
              	    	    		  		  	  	  		  		  		  	      
              
        
          












      
      
    
      

  


  
    
                    
		  		  		
		

				          
      
  
              	    	    		  		  	  	  		  		  		  	      
              
        
          





    
    





      be the first to comment
  

  0
      comments
  




  
    




  

  






      
      
    
  	  




      
      
    
           
   
                    


                                                        
                                                            
                    
                                                   		      	
		   
			         				         		
   		       
	              
      
  
      
              
        
          








          related news

    	
      
        		                
                      the gas price rollercoaster

                                
                              june 29, 2011
                                                                            3 comments
                          

                                historically, the price of gasoline has been tied to changes in the cost of crude oil; as crude prices rise, consumers can expect to pay more at the pump, and the reverse is also true.

                  

      
    
	
      
        		                
                      rethinking the budget: 6 counterintuitive tips

                                
                              february 7, 2013
                                                                            2 comments
                          

                            

      
    
	
      
        		                
                      how can mlps pay out higher dividends than their earnings?

                                
                              february 7, 2013
                                                            0 comment
                          

                                a common question we get about master limited partnerships (mlps) is how can they pay out higher dividends than their earnings?

                  

      
    


  
      
      
    
           
   
                    


                                            

                    

                                                        
                                
        


    


                      
      
  
      
              
        
          
    
        
            
                our company

                	about us
	our team
	locations
	contact us


            

            
                news & events

                	recent news
	upcoming events
	insight blog


            


            
                for clients

                	intranet
	resources
	videos
	mobile site


            

            
                newsletter sign up

                
                    
                    
                    subscribe
                    unsubscribe

                

            

        

        
            
                powered by: dotcms — © 2014  all rights reserved.
            

            
                rss feed
                follow us on twitter
                follow us on facebook
                send to a friend
                add this
            

        

    






  
  



































      
      
    
      
	powerey dotcms - the leading open source java content management system
