

              
  
      
              
        
          
    
        
                            my account
                logout
                        
                
                
            

        

    

    
    
    	
            
                
                                          
                                    

                
                    
                        
                        
                        
                    
                

            

            
                	
                                about us 
                                	about us
	what we do
	locations
	our team


                            
	products
	
                                services 
                                	investment banking
	private banking
	market research
	wealth management


                            
	
                                resources 
                                	documents
	videos
	photos
	blog
	intranet


                            
	
                                news & events 
                                	news
	events


                            


            
        

    


      
      
  
      
    
        
        
        
                                
            

                        
                            
                                           		
            investment banking
            private banking
            market research
            wealth management
    

      		      	
		   
			         				         		
   		       
	                  
      
  
      
              
        
          
  
    
      
    
  



      
      
    
           
   
                

                
            
        
                                            
                                                                        
                        
                    
                                                            
                    
                                                   		      	
		   
			         				         		
   		       
	     wealth management

private wealth management (pwm) is the term generally used to describe highly customized and sophisticated investment management and financial planning services delivered to high net worth investors. generally, this includes advice on the use of trusts and other estate planning, vehicles, business succession or stock option planning, and the use of hedging derivatives for large blocks of stock.

traditionally, the wealthiest retail clients of investment firms demanded a greater level of service, product offering and sales personnel than were received by the average clients. with an increase in the number of affluent investors in recent years, there has been an increasing demand for sophisticated financial solutions and expertise throughout the world.

the cfa institute curriculum on "private wealth management" indicates that there are two primary factors that distinguish the issues facing individual investors from those of institutions.

	time horizons are different. individuals face a finite life as compared to the potentially infinite life of institutions. this fact requires strategies for transferring assets at the end of an individual’s life. these transfers are subject to laws and regulations that vary from locality to locality and therefore the strategies available to address this situation vary.
	individuals are more likely to face a variety of taxes on investment returns that vary from locality to locality. portfolio management techniques that provide individuals with after tax returns that meet their objectives are necessarily going to be specific to these tax structures.


the term was first used by the elite retail (or "private client") divisions of firms such as goldman sachs or morgan stanley (before the dean witter reynolds merger), to distinguish themselves from mass market offerings, but since has spread throughout the financial services industry. certain larger firms (ubs, morgan stanley d merrill lynch) have "tiered" their platforms – with separate branch systems and advisor training programs, distinguishing private wealth management from "wealth management", with the latter term used to describe the same type of services, but with a lower degree of customization and delivered to mass affluent clients. at morgan stanley, "private wealth management" is the retail division focused on serving clients with greater than $20 million in investment assets,[2] while "global wealth management" focuses on accounts smaller than $10 million.

in the late 1980s private banks and brokerage firms began to offer seminars and client events designed to showcase the expertise and capabilities of the sponsoring firm. within a few years a new business model emerged – family office exchange in 1990, the institute for private investors in 1991, and ccc alliance in 1995. these new entities were devoted to educating the ultra wealthy investor and providing a network of peers for the ultra high net worth individuad their families. their growth since the 1990s indicates a market eager to become more informed about private wealth management.

wealth management education for private investors with substantial wealth is offered by several leading universities. the first such program was offered by the american academy of financial management (now branded as the aafm global academy of financial management) who offers the cwm chartered wealth manager program and then the wharton school of the university of pennsylvania. since 1999, over 5000 people from over 100 countries have completed the aafm cwm wealth manager program. [3] at wharton, 520 investors from 29 countries have completed the course.[4] the five-day program is offered twice a year and is a continuing partnership with the institute for private investors. both the university of chicago and stanford university also offer 5 day programs. in 2009, columbia university offered a three day program on value investing designed for high net investors wealth management can be provided by large corporate entities, independent financial advisers or multi-licensed portfolio managers whose services are designed to focus on high-net worth clients.[5] large banks and large brokerage houses create segmentation marketing-strategies to sell both proprietary and non-proprietary products and services to investors designated as potential high net-worth clients. independent wealth managers use their experience in estate planning, risk management, and their affiliations with tax and legal specialists, to manage the diverse holdings of high net worth clients. banks and brokerage firms use advisory talent pools to aggregate these same services.



references

	cwm
	individual investors – private wealth management
	aafm global academy of financial management
	wharton private wealth management program graduate profile
	directory of wealth management providers for high-net worth clients

         
   
                    


                                            

                    

                                                      
                                                            

                        

        
        


    


                      
      
  
      
              
        
          
    
        
            
                our company

                	about us
	our team
	locations
	contact us


            

            
                news & events

                	recent news
	upcoming events
	insight blog


            


            
                for clients

                	intranet
	resources
	videos
	mobile site


            

            
                newsletter sign up

                
                    
                    
                    subscribe
                    unsubscribe

                

            

        

        
            
                powered by: dotcms — © 2014  all rights reserved.
            

            
                rss feed
                follow us on twitter
                follus on facebook
                send to a friend
                add this
            

        

    






  
  



































      
      
    
      
	powered by dotcms - the leading open source java content management system
