

              
  
      
              
        
          
    
        
                            my account
                logout
                        
                
                
            

        

    

    
    
    	
            
                
                                          
                                    

                
                    
                        
                        
                        
                    
                

            

            
                	
                                about us 
                                	about us
	what we do
	locations
	our team


                            
	products
	
                                services 
                                	investment banking
	private banking
	market research
	wealth management


                            
	
                                resources 
                                	documents
	videos
	photos
	blog
	intranet


                            
	
                                news & events 
                                	news
	events


                            


            
        

    


      
      
  
      
    
        
        
        
                                
                                            
                                                                        
                        
                    
                                                            
                    
                                                   		      	
		   
			         				         		
   		       
	    
              
      
  
              	    	    		  		  	  	  		  		  		  	      
              
        
          
  
    
      fortune brands: value is about to be unleashed      		    

    
      
                  
      
  
              	    	    		  		  	  	  		  		  		  	      
              
        
          












      
      
    
        

      aug 26 2011 at 16:34 edt
      investanomics.com
      
        
                      no comments
                  
      
    

    fortune brands (fo) is providing us a great opportunity to participate in a spin-off that will separate the spirits and home & security business. these types of plays are great for investors; they help unlock value that is often unrealized as a combined company. by spinning off the fast-growing business, the market may assign a higher valuation to the separated companies. this will then allow the investor to realize the full potential of the investment.

fortune brands will be divided into two companies. beam will be solely focused on spirits and fortune brands home & security will focus on home products. the spin-off is tax free and is expected to take place early fourth quarter, 2011.

here are some highlights about fortune brands:

	net sales for the business were up $1.59 billion, which was a 5% increase from the same quarter in the previous year. these numbers already exclude the acushnet golf business that was recently sold to a group led by fila for $1.22 billion. beam, the spirits division, saw net sales increase 13%.


	beam has grown the business by focusing on innovation and creating strong brands. over the past 2 years beam has revolutionized the category by bringing innovations like red stag and jim beams devil's cut to market. i look for that growth to continue as beam plans to expand offerings to the international market.


	beam has done a great job enhancing the value of acquisitions. one such example was when beam acquired skinnygirl's cocktail brand. beam increased value by utilizing its sales and points of distribution. beam has boosted availability of the brand by 70% and skinnygirl has become the fastest growing spirit brand in america.


	beam has gotten closer to its market by taking control of distribution. beam's sales organization now accounts for 75% of global sales, compared with 8% three years ago. having control of the distribution allows beam to bring strong relevant brands to market, as well as to correctly leverage distribution partners.


	home & security is expanding offerings by targeting new markets. moen is currently expanding product offerings in the commercial space. moen is also expanding into the international market and is currently the #3 imported facet brand in china.


	home & security is keeping a tight handle on cost. it recently restructured the supply chain, which cut 40% of its manufacturing footprint. this allowed the company to capture profitable market share.


i'm bullish on fortune brands and think the spin-off will unlock some great opportunity. for those investors that do not want to keep the home & security company, you may sell it after the spin-off and hold the faster-growing spirits company. i'm expecting a nice rally after the spin-off as i expect a lot of investors to invest in a new fast-growing spirits pure play. 

disclosure: i have no positions in any stocks mentioned, and no plans to initiate any positions within the next 72 hours.
    
      
                  
      
  
              	    	    		  		  	  	  		  		  		  	      
              
        
          












      
      
    
        

              
          
                      long & short ideas
                      long ideas
                      consumer goods
                  

          


    
            
		  		  		
		

				          
      
  
      
              
        
          





    
    




      be the first to comment
  

  0
      comments
  




  
    




  

  






      
      
    
  	    

  



      
      
    
           
   
                    


                                                        
                                                            
                    
                                                   		      	
		   
			         				         		
   		       
	    
          
      
  
              	    	    		  		  	  	  		  		  		  	      
              
        
          
  
    
      
      
        
      
    

    
  


  
    
    topics


    
      most recent
              investment banking
              private banking
              research
              wealth management
          

  


  
    
    tags


    
      
                	
		
										
			
			
					
									
				
			
																																																																																																																																																																												
			
						
			
						
			
			
			
												
				airlines
			
								
				consumer goods
			
								
				customer service
			
								
				earnings
			
								
				fund holdings
			
								
				jewelry stores
			
												
				long & short ideas
			
												
				long ideas
			
								
				quick picks & lists
			
												
				services
			
			
		 	
	
      
    

  




      
      
    
           
   
                    


                                            

                    

                                                        
                                
        


    


                      
      
  
      
              
        
          
    
        
            
                our company

                	about us
	our team
	locations
	contact us


            

            
                news & events

                	recent news
	upcoming events
	insight blog


            


            
                for clients

                	intranet
	resources
	videos
	mobile site


            

            
                newsletter sign up

                
                    
                    
                    subscribe
                    unsubscribe

                

            

        

        
            
                powered by: dotcms — © 2014  all rights reserved.
            

            
                rss feed
                follow us on twitter
                follow us on facebook
                send to a friend
                add this
            

     

    






  
  



































      
      
    
      
	powered by dotcms - the leading open source java content management system
