

              
  
      
              
        
          
    
        
                            my account
                logout
                        
                
                
            

        

    

    
    
    	
            
                
                                          
                                    

                
                    
                        
                        
                        
                    
                

            

            
                	
                                about us 
                                	about us
	what we do
	locations
	our team


                            
	products
	
                                services 
                                	investment banking
	private banking
	market research
	wealth management


                            
	
                                resources 
                                	documents
	videos
	photos
	blog
	intranet


                            
	
                                news & events 
                                	news
	events


                            


            
        

    


      
      
  
      
    
        
        
        
                                
                                            
                                                                        
                        
                    
                                                            
                    
                                                   		      	
		   
			         				         		
   		       
	    
              
      
  
              	    	    		  		  	  	  		  		  		  	      
              
        
          
  		  
    rethinking the budget: 6 counterintuitive tips  

  
    
                
      
  
              	    	    		  		  	  	  		  		  		  	      
              
        
          












      
      
    
      

    feb 07 2013 at 16:08 est
      
        
                      2 comments
                  
      
  


  
  handling money is something we all have to learn to do in order to survive. and the basic concept of budgeting - spend less than you make - seems so, well, basic that we fail to look closely enough at how budgeting can help us handle our finances well. if you think you know everything there is to know about setting, maintaining and succeeding with a budget, think again. these tips are less obvious, running counter to our commonly held intuitions about money.

1. indulge in what matters to you.
 quick: what's the first thing you do when you start making a budget? usually it's make a list of your expenses, add them all up, grimace painfully at the total amount, and then start figuring out which expenses you can eliminate. there's no point in spending money on things you don't want or need. however, common budgeting technique often has you cutting out absolutely anything that could fall into an "optional" category. the $5 latte from the coffee shop is a favorite example; cut that daily or biweekly or weekly expense out, budgeting experts say, and you'll save x dollars per year for your savings account!

the problem is that cutting out every optional expense may lead you to meet a new and bigger foe to your budget: the feeling of deprivation. it's the same concept that makes you want to cheat on your diet, even though you really do want to fit into your skinny jeans again. you start a diet, or a budget, and cut out all the eating or spending you enjoy (but don't necessarily need), and soon all you can think about is what you can't have.

do go ahead and make your list of expenses, and definitely get rid of the optional things that don't add value or enjoyment to your life. but don't just get rid of the optional stuff that you do really value; instead, make it part of your budget, even if it seems like a luxury. you're much more likely to stick with a budget that allows you the little luxuries you do enjoy than one which leaves you feeling continually deprived.

2. don't automatically choose the cheapest option.
 choosing the cheapest option, whether it's for food or a car or clothes or a vacation, will certainly save you money in the present. but spending a little less for the cheapest choice isn't always smart. the old adage of "you get what you pay for" should be echoing through your memory right about now, and that's the point. when you always get the cheapest option, you end up with lower quality items.

in some cases, it doesn't really matter: disposable items, or name-brand versus big-brand. you can't always tell the difference beyond the packaging. but sometimes if you save a few dollars on the initial purchase but end up with a much lower quality item, you'll end up having to spend more to maintain it and then spend again, sooner, to replace it because it won't last as long as the higher quality option.

3. skip the coupons.
 if you've watched an episode or two of "extreme couponing," you may have visions of free groceries dancing in your head. and what could be better for the budget? if you can save all that money on groceries and household supplies, you'll have more money for paying off debt, saving or, um, indulging in that latte.

however, coupons aren't always a boon to your budget. in fact, many of us end up clipping coupons for stuff we wouldn't normally buy, and then spending our money on grocery and household items we really don't need just because we happen to have a coupon handy. it's tempting, and you feel good about your purchase because you just saved $1 off the normal price! but wouldn't it be better to save the total price by not buying that item at all?

4. increase your income rather than simply decreasing your spending.
 cut costs, reduce spending, limit expenses; however you word it, this concept is unavoidable in most budgeting methods. instead of focusing only on spending less, try putting your attention on making more. you can pick up a part-time job, sell your excess stuff, consult, start freelancing or find another way to turn your talents and a little extra time into some additional income. in fact, once you get to a certain point in the reducing-expenses exercise, you'll find that it's actually easier to make more than to spend less.

5. spend money on maintenance.
 when you're concerned about your bank account, the last thing you want to do is spend money that doesn't have to be spent. so you skip certain, non-urgent things, things like getting the oil changed, getting the chimney cleaned, getting your sore tooth checked out.

and you are saving money - until the car's engine locks up because it ran out of oil, or the chimney catches on fire because of the soot build-up, or you end up having to pay for a root canal because you didn't get that cavity taken care of soon enough. take care of maintenance before the need is urgent, and you're almost certain to spend less than you'll have to if you wait until it becomes a crisis.

6. don't panic about your non-existent savings account.
 you need and want to save money. and every financial expert has told you that you should be saving money. meanwhile, you're paying off a car loan, a house mortgage, a student loan and a couple of credit cards, plus trying to avoid more debt with the costs of daily life. but every now and then you wake up in a state of panic, with one thought beating in your budget-weary brain: "i've got to start saving! i've got to start saving! i've got to start saving!"

having a hefty savings account will be a great feeling once you get there. in the meantime, however, take a deep breath and calm down. if you take money away from paying off an interest-bearing debt in order to put it in a savings account, you'll likely be losing money because that debt will keep accumulating interest at a much higher rate that your savings account will. focus on paying off the debt as fast as you can, which will save you hundreds of dollars in interest. then focus on building up your savings.

the bottom line
 we tend to be kind of private about our money, but there's one last tip that might help you reach your financial goals more than all the other tips put together: talk about your budget. tell your friends. tell your family. go public. why? research shows that people who talk to friends about what they want to accomplish and set up some sort of accountability system are 33% more likely to reach their goals. and if your goal is to set a good budget and stick to it, you might as well get all the help you can get.

  
    
                
      
  
              	    	    		  		  	  	  		  		  		  	      
              
        
          












      
      
    
      

  


  
    
                    
		  		  		
		

				          
      
  
              	    	    		  		  	  	  		  		  		  	      
              
        
          





    
    





      post a comment
  

  2
      comments
  



  	
        
          
            
            jason smith
            more than a year ago.
          

          
            
              
                
we tend to be kind of private about our money, but there's one last tip that might help you reach your financial goals more than all the other tips put together: talk about your budget. tell your friends.

              

                              reply
                

                          

            





        
      
          	
        
          
            
            david wright
            more than a year ago.
          

          
            
              
                having a hefty savings account will be a great feeling once you get there.
              


                              reply
                

                          

            





        
      
      

  
    




  

  






      
      
    
  	  




      
      
    
           
   
                    


                                                        
                                                            
                    
                                                   		      	
		   
			         				         		
   		       
	              
      
  
      
              
        
          








          related news

    	
      
        		                
                      the gas price rollercoaster

                                
                              june 29, 2011
                                                                            3 comments
                          

                                historically, the price of gasoline has been tied to changes in the cost of crude oil; as crude prices rise, consumers can expect to pay more at the pump, and the reverse is also true.

                  

      
    
	
      
        		                
                      rethinking the budget: 6 counterintuitive tips

                                
                              february 7, 2013
                                                                            2 comments
                          

                            

      
    
	
      
        		                
                      how can mlps pay out higher dividends than their earnings?

                                
                              february 7, 2013
                                                            0 comment
                          

                                a common question we get about master limited partnerships (mlps) is how can they pay out higher dividends than their earnings?

                  

      
    


  
      
      
    
           
   
                    


                                            

                    

                                                        
                                
        

    

                      
      
  
      
              
        
          
    
        
            
                our company

                	about us
	our team
	locations
	contact us


            

            
                news & events

                	recent news
	upcoming events
	insight blog


            


            
                for clients

                	intranet
	resources
	videos
	mobile site


            

            
                newsletter sign up

                
                    
                    
                    subscribe
                    unsubscribe

                

            

        

        
            
                powered by: dotcms — © 2014  all rights reserved.
            

            
                rss feed
                follow us on twitter
                follow us on facebook
                send to a friend
                add this
            

        

    






  
  



































      
      
    
      
	powered by dotcms - the leading open source java content management syst