

              
  
      
              
        
          
    
        
                            my account
                logout
                        
                
                
            

        

    

    
    
    	
            
                
                                          
                                    

                
                    
                        
                        
                        
                    
                

            

            
                	
                                about us 
                                	about us
	what we do
	locations
	our team


                            
	products
	
                                services 
                                	investment banking
	private banking
	market research
	wealth management


                            
	
                                resources 
                                	documents
	videos
	photos
	blog
	intranet


                            
	
                                news & events 
                                	news
	events


                            


            
        

    


      
      
  
      
    
        
        
        
                                
                                            
                                                                        
                        
                    
                                                            
                    
                                                   		      	
		   
			         				         		
   		       
	    
              
      
  
              	    	    		  		  	  	  		  		  		  	      
              
        
          
  
    
      3 airline buy opportunities fueled by market fears      		    

    
      
                  
      
  
              	    	    		  		  	  	  		  		  		  	      
              
        
          












      
      
    
        

      aug 02 2011 at 12:15 edt
      vince martin
      
        
                      no comments
                  
      
    

    the last month has been a difficult one for u.s. airline stocks, as higher oil prices, missed earnings, and economic fears have conspired to drive the sector down some 16%: tiffany

(chart of bloomberg united states airline index, courtesy bloomberg.com)

there is some good news, at the moment, however -- thanks to the typical incompetence of the federal government, several faa taxes expired last friday. this is costing the federal government $30 million per day, most of which has been captured by the airlines through price hikes. thehill.com reported last week that "there is no sign of the end." and while the $30mm figure is miniscule -- less than 1% of the industry's daily revenue -- it is nevertheless money that should go directly to the airline's bottom line. regardless of the faa impasse, there are still opportunities for value investors in the airline sector. while the major airlines are stereotyped (and rightly so) as being saddled with debt and hostage to oil prices, some airlines still offer profitable companies with reasonable balance sheets. here are three:

1. alaska air group (alk)

alaska air group operates alaskan airlines and sister airline horizon air. the stock touched an all-time high of $70.61 earlier this month, before retreating about 13% during the recent sector slide. the company reported second quarter earnings last month, meeting analyst estimates of $2.44 per share before fuel and fleet accounting charges. gaap earnings were $0.78 per share, off sharply from $1.60 in the year-prior quarter and $2.02 in the first quarter of 2011, due largely to higher fuel costs. alaska air, along with spirit and hawaiian, is one of the few companies that has passed along savings from the faa expiration directly to its consumers; spirit has already announced that its policy led to a jump in sales, and alk may get a similar boost in its third quarter.

despite the second-quarter struggles, the company has earned $7.88 on a trailing twelve-month basis, giving it a p/e around 8. analysts surveyed by reuters finance anticipate 2011 earnings to be slightly lower (consensus around $7.50), with 2012 earnings at $8.49 per share. levered cash flow for 2010 was an impressive $400mm, though a weak first quarter may lower that total for 2011.
alk's balance sheet is solid as well. through earnings and debt prepayment, the company has decreased its debt-to-capital ratio to 63% after 1q 2011, a 12-year-low, well below the company's major competitors and a level easily sustainable through existing cash flows. the company's $1.15b in cash and securities is almost exactly equal to its long-term debt load, leaving only commitments for aircraft leases as its major net debt obligation. the company has kept revenues relatively stable in the last four years (3.3b, 3.4b, 3.1b, 3.5b) while growing earnings and reducing the company's debt load. if management can continue their performance, alk looks undervalued at current levels.

2. southwest airlines (luv)

luv is trading at an 18-month low, the victim of a steady, 8-month, 30% drop, which included the closing of the company's acquisition of airtran. the company has earned 61 cents a share over the past twelve months, giving the company a reasonable, if unspectacular, p/e just below 17. analysts expect a similar performance for 2011, before results from airtran start to aid earnings in 2012, in which southwest is anticipated to earn 99 cents per share.

southwest's balance sheet is exceptionally strong; the company has over half of its market capitalization in cash, more than enough to pay off its long-term debt. the company has earned an impressive $1.5 billion in levered cash flow over the last twelve months, and recently paid out its 139th consecutive dividend (although the dividend is a miniscule .0045 per quarter, or 1.8 cents annually, giving a yield below 0.2%.) southwest's long history of success gives credence to the idea that the recent lows are an attractive entry point, not a sign of things to come.

3. allegiant travel company (algt)

allegiant air provides low-cost, no-frills service from las vegas, phoenix, los angeles, and florida to smaller airports around the country. the company offers very cheap upfront fares, combined with fees (or ancillary revenue, as the industry prefers) for everything from seat choice to baggage to booking over the phone.

algt has had an impressive earnings history, earning 3.72, 3.76, and 3.32 in 2008, 2009, and 2010, respectively, defying the airline industry's downslide during the 2008-09 recession. earnings are expected to dip to 2.79 this year before rebounding to 3.91 in 2012, giving the company a forward p/e of 11.

allegiant's debt load is a manageable $145mm ($125 million coming from a recent short-term loan), easily covered by the company's cash balance. algt also offers a dividend yield of 1.75% (.75 annually). algt has slid some 14%, and earnings after the close on monday may offer some good news to stem the slide.

disclosure: i have no positions in any stocks mentioned, and no plans to initiate any positions within the next 72 hours.
    
      
                  
      
  
              	    	    		  		  	  	  		  		  		  	      
              
        
          












      
      
    
        

              
          
                      long & short ideas
                      quick picks & lists
                      services
                      airlines
                  

          


    
            
		  		  		
		

				          
      
  
      
              
        
          





    
    




      be the first to comment
  

  0
      comments
  




  
    




  

  






      
      
    
  	    

  



      
      
    
           
   
                    


                                                        
                                                            
                    
                                                   		      	
		   
			         				         		
   		       
	    
          
      
  
              	    	    		  		  	  	  		  		  		  	      
              
        
          
  
    
      
      
        
      
    

    
  


  
    
    topics


    
      most recent
              investment banking
              private banking
              research
              wealth management
          

  


  
    
    tags


    
      
                	
		
										
			
			
					
									
				
			
																																																																																																																																																																												
			
						
			
						
			
			
			
												
				airlines
			
								
				consumer goods
			
								
				customer service
			
								
				earnings
			
								
				fund holdings
			
								
				jewelry stores
			
												
				long & short ideas
			
												
				long ideas
			
								
				quick picks & lists
			
												
				services
			
			
		 	
	
      
    

  




      
      
    
           
   
                    


                                            

                    

                                                        
                                
        


    


                      
      
  
      
              
        
          
    
        
            
                our company

                	about us
	our team
	locations
	contact us


            

            
                news & events

                	recent news
	upcoming events
	insight blog


            


            
                for clients

                	intranet
	resources
	videos
	mobile site


            

            
                newsletter sign up

                
                    
                    
                    subscribe
                    unsubscribe

                

            

        

        
            
                powered by: dotcms — © 2014  all rights reserved.
            

            
                rss fee               follow us on twitter
                follow us on facebook
                send to a friend
                add this
            

        

    






  
  



































      
      
    
      
	powered by dotcms - the leading open source java content management system
